Alright, in this section we are going
to take a look at an external property
source configure and this is a
configuration bean that allows us to
specify a specific properties file that
we want pull property values from and
bring that into our Spring Bean. So what
we're going to do is I'm going to create
a little fake data source bean with
several properties on it and we're going
to set up the Spring configuration to
pull in the properties from an external
properties file. So the properties file
is going to be in a resources folder and
we're going to tell Spring to look on
the class path to bring that in and then
wire up those properties using a Spring
expression and the @Value annotation.
We'll get our properties loaded up and this  is just an example. I'm using a
fake data source bean just to give us
something realistic to work with here.
Alright in this example we're going to
take a look at using external properties
and specifically using the property
source method to get a hold of values
outside from a properties file. So what
we want to do is, the first thing I'm
going to come in here is going to get
rid of some of these system out
statements that we've been using for
previous lessons, delete that. So we're
not going to have that chatter from them
anymore and I'm going to create a new
property file. So I'm just going to come
in here, New File. So I'm calling it
datasource.properties and I'm going to
use this to create some fake, like a fake
data source, just something realistic
that we can work with and set up an
example of like we're wiring up a MySQL
data source. Just trying to mimic
something realistic here. So I'm doing
guru and we'll call it username and
let's do guru.password
and we'll give it a url. So the strings
really don't matter. I just want to have
something wiring in there. So we have
John, somepass and just a random string
for our mock data url. Now I've
created a Bean ahead of time. So it's a
fake data, it's got user, password and a
url and then just getters and setters. So
nothing, just a plain old POJO that we're
going to be using for our examples here.
So to get everything wired up and to be
loading this from property sources, we
need to add in a little Java
configuration. I'm going to create a new
configuration class and I'm just calling
it PropertyConfig. Add that in to Git. So
you guys have this as a working
example and of course I'm going to do a
Configuration for that and the first
thing that we need to do is come in and
we want to add in a new bean for the
PropertySourcesPlaceholderConfigure.
And what we're going to do is add in a
configuration here for it.
So that just returns a
simple Bean for us and of course
we want to annotate this with the Bean annotation. Now that's the easy part
and this is what's going to allow us to
wire up by value. So we want to add in
some properties now. So this is going to
match our three properties from our Bean
and we're going to use the @Value
annotation and the @Value is, when we
use the @Value, the property sources
placeholder configure that's going to be
matching up the values for us. So that
Bean that we created below is important
and I made a mistake here. It's actually
going to be a Spring expression language
here. So I need to do a dollar signs
quickly. So this is going to have that,
get evaluated as an expression and we're
going to go into the Spring Context and
get that value out of the context as an
externalised property. So now, this is
all going to get wired up by that. I'm
going to double check, make sure that we
have dburl, username, password. Just
double checking my property names. That
looks correct and now we want to also
return back a Bean for that.
S0 this just goes through and
sets up the properties on our FakeDataSource
Bean and what's happening here
is we're asking the configuration to use
a Spring expression language statement
to get that value from the externalised
properties. Now the last thing that we
need to do is indicate that we want that
datasource.properties file to be used. So I'm going to go ahead and add in one
more annotation. Let me see that the
IntelliJ intellisense brought it up. Now
just to recap what's going on here
is we have on line 13, @Configuration
annotation. We'll bring in the PropertySource annotation saying that we want to
use the set of properties and it's going
to look inside of that datasource.properties
file to resolve these string values. So we'll get user, password
and url out of our properties file and
then you want to return back this Bean.
Almost made a mistake there. Because we do want to annotate that as a Bean to
return back our FakeDataSource, so
let's go ahead and get a handle on that.
That's all the configuration there and
just as a reminder the
PropertySourcePlaceholderConfigure, that is what it's
going to be reading the file for us. So
that goes out and we'll scan for
property files and enable us to use the
Value annotation like we are. Now you can
see I'm using a different technique
there on line 20. I'm using the context
getBean but now I'm passing it into the
class. So it's going to get a type of
that Bean. So I'm going to do a little
system out here and just ask it for the
username and let's go ahead and run this
and see if we got everything working
correctly.
And we did run into an
error there. So it's saying, Could not
resolve a placeholder and I
have user not username. So let's go
ahead and fix that.
Here's a mistake to make. See if we can run
this now and you can see that Spring
created an error there because it wasn't
able to find that property. So if you
call for a property that Spring is
expecting but doesn't find it, that context
is going to fail to start. So we did get
the proper output there and everything
is working nicely. So we can do
additional outputs on the password and
url but I'm pretty sure that those got set up fine. Alright you saw how easy it
was to externalise properties to dot
properties file. A couple steps that you do
have to go through there, one is create
the configuration, do the Value
annotations and then the property source
to figure bean. We need to get that on the
class path as well to get that created into
the Spring Context. So Spring will wire
that up for us and give us those
external properties.